Difference between 32-bit and 64-bit operating systems

there exist two type processor i.e., 
32-bit and 64-bit. 
These processor tells us how much memory a processor can have access from a CPU register.

-- task is loaded from secondary memeory (disk) to Main memort (RAM)
-- then From RAM to CPU registers (CPU registers stores memory Adresses).

A 32-bit system can access 2**32 memory addresses, i.e 4 GB of RAM or physical memory.
A 64-bit system can access 2**64 memory addresses, i.e actually 18-Billion GB of RAM. 

In short, any amount of memory greater than 4 GB can be easily handled by it.


                                     Processor
									    |
                                   CPU register (stored memory adresses) [32 or 64 bit to store address]
								        |
                                    Main Memory


- A major difference between 32-bit processors and 64-bit processors is 
  the number of calculations per second they can perform, which affects the speed at which they can complete tasks. 
  64-bit processors can come in dual core, quad core, six core, and eight core versions for home computing.
  Multiple cores allow for an increased number of calculations per second that can be performed,
  which can increase the processing power and help make a computer run faster. 
  Software programs that require many calculations to function smoothly can operate faster
  and more efficiently on the multi-core 64-bit processors, for the most part.


-- Advantages of 64-bit over 32-bit

Using 64-bit one can do a lot in multi-tasking, 
user can easily switch between various applications without any windows hanging problems. (context switching)
Gamers can easily plays High graphical games like Modern Warfare, GTA V, or use high-end softwares like Photoshop or CAD 
which takes a lot of memory, since it makes multi-tasking with big softwares easy and efficient for users. 
However upgrading the video card instead of getting a 64-bit processor would be more beneficial.

Note:
A computer with a 64-bit processor can have a 64-bit or 32-bit version of an operating system installed.
However, with a 32-bit operating system, the 64-bit processor would not run at its full capability.
On a computer with a 64-bit processor, we can’t run a 16-bit legacy program. 
Many 32-bit programs will work with a 64-bit processor and operating system, 
but some older 32-bit programs may not function properly, or at all, due to limited or no compatibility.