

Here are the list of services the OS Provides to User:

1. USER Interface (GUI or CLI)
2. Resource Management
3. File Management
4. program execution 
5. I/O operations
6. Communications (process syncronisation)
7. Accounting
8. Error detection
9. security and protection.


Explaination:

1. User Interface :
  - this service of os provides user to interact with the os easy. and help in performing task to user.
   ex:- windows GUI or CLI

2. Resource management :
 - this service will take care of all the resources needed by application for its execution.
   here OS manages the Resources effectivly to make system work smoothly.
   ex: resources are memory, file access, I/O access etc..

3. File management :
- this service of OS will help in managing the File system. for example a file is not accessable to all. 
   can use this service to restrict or provide access on the file. and manage all file system. 

4. program execution :
- this service help us to run our program properly.
here an OS will take source code and compile it to convert it to object code and excute it and show the output.

source code --> Compile --> Object code --> Executor --> output.

5. I/O operations :
- here OS will manage the I/O devices requist by user.  when we need to access I/O or O/P device we requist OS to provide access.
  OS will handle the requist.

6. Coomunication :
- this service of OS will help the communication between deferent process of same system or diferent system connect through the computer network.

7.Accountabilty :
- this service keep track of how the resources are consumed by different user to do furthur analysis and research for improvement of the OS.
  log keeping for unexpected error, keeping track of resource usage etc...

8. error detection :
- this service will detect if any error occurs in OS and handles it effectively.

9. Security and Protection :
- this service provides security layer to system by imposing protection by authenticating the user 
  and securing system from malicious software/malwares.